



SLIM                                                           N. Rooney
Internet-Draft                                         November 26, 2015
Expires: May 29, 2016


                             SLIM Use Cases
                    draft-ietf-slim-use-cases-latest

Abstract

   Use cases for selection of language for internet media.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on May 29, 2016.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2015 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.








Rooney                    Expires May 29, 2016                  [Page 1]

Internet-Draft               slim use cases                November 2015


1.  Introduction

   The SLIM working group is developing standards for language selection
   for non-real time and real time communications.  There are a number
   of relevant use cases which could benefit from this functionality
   including emergency service rela-time communications and customer
   services.  This document details the use cases for SLIM and gives
   some indication of necessray requirements.

2.  Use Cases

   Use cases are listed below:

2.1.  Single two-way language

   The simplest use case.  One language and modality both ways in media
   described in sdp as audio or video or text.  Straightforward.  Works
   for spoken, written and signed languages.

   Result: Possible

2.2.  Alternatives in the same modality

   Two or more language alternatives in the same modality.  Two or more
   languages both ways in media described in sdp as audio or video or
   text, but only in one modality.Straightforward.  Works for spoken,
   written and signed languages.  The answering part selects.  There is
   a relative preference expressed by the order, and the answering part
   can try to fulfill that in the best way.

   Result: Possible

2.3.  Fairly equal alternatives in different modalities.

   Two or more modality alternatives.  Two or more languages in
   different modalities both ways in media described in sdp as audio or
   video or text Example a hearing person also competent in sign
   language declares both spoken and sign language competence in audio
   and video.

   This is fairly straightforward, as long as there is no strong
   difference in preference for these alternatives.  The indication of
   sign language competence is needed to avoid invoking relay services
   in calls with deaf sign language users only indicating sign language.

   Result: Possible





Rooney                    Expires May 29, 2016                  [Page 2]

Internet-Draft               slim use cases                November 2015


2.4.  Last resort indication

   A hearing user has text capability but want to use that as last
   resort.  With current hunintlang specification, there is no way to
   describe preference level between modalities and no way to describe
   absolute preference.

   Result: An answering service will have no guidance to which is the
   preferred modality and may select to use the modality that is the
   callers last resort even if the preferred alternative is available.

   A practical case can be a sign language user with a small mobile
   terminal that has some inconvenient means for texting, but sign
   language will be strongly preferred.  In order to not miss any calls,
   the indication of text as last resort would be desirable.  Possible
   solution: coding of an absolute preference: hi, med, lo together with
   the tag.

   Result: Need for absolute preference indication.

2.5.  Directional capabilities in different modalities

   A hard-of-hearing user strongly prefers to talk and get text back.
   Getting spoken language input is appreciated.  This can be indicated
   by spoken language two-ways in audio, and reception of language in
   text.

   But there is nothing in current coding that says that the text path
   is important.  The answering part may see it as an alternative, just
   as Section 2.3.

   There is a way to indicate that the call shall fail if a language is
   not met, but that may be too drastic for this user.  It may be
   important to be able to connect and just say something, or use
   residual hearing to get something back when the voice is familiar.
   Possible solution: coding of an absolute preference: hi, med, lo
   together with the tag could solve this case if used together with the
   directional indications.  Another solution would be to indicate
   required grouping of media.  But that seems more complex.

   Result: Need for absolute preference indication.

2.6.  Combination of modalities

   Similar to Section 2.5.  A deaf-blind person may have highest
   preference for signing out and getting text back.  Indication of sign
   language output in video and text reception in text, using the




Rooney                    Expires May 29, 2016                  [Page 3]

Internet-Draft               slim use cases                November 2015


   current directional attributes.  An answering part may seek suitable
   modalities for each direction and find the only possible combination.

   Result: Possible

2.7.  Person with speech disabilities who prefer speech-to-speech
      service

   A person who speaks in a way that is hard to understand, may be used
   to have support of a speech-to-speech relay service that adds clear
   speech when needed for the understanding.  Calls with close friends
   and family might be possible without the relay service.

   Text can be used as a fall-back.

   This user would indicate preference for receiving spoken language in
   audio.  Text output can be indicated but this user might want to use
   that as last resort.  But there is no current coding for vague or
   unarticulated speech or other needs for a speech-to-speech service.

   A possibility could be to indicate no preference for spoken language
   out, a coding of proposed assisting service and an indication of text
   output on a low absolute level.

   Result: Need of service indication, and absolute level of preference
   indication

2.8.  Person with speech disabilities who prefer to type and hear

   A person who speaks in a way that is hard to understand, may be used
   to use text for output and listen to spoken language for input.  This
   user would indicate preference for receiving spoken language in
   audio.  Text output modality can be indicated.

   If the answering part has text and audio capabilities, there is a
   match.  If only voice, there is a need to invoke a text relay
   service.

   Result: Possible.

2.9.  All Possibilities

   A tele-sales center calls out and want to offer all kinds of
   possibilities so that the answering part can select.  A tele-sales
   center has competence in multiple spoken languages and can invoke
   relay services rapidly if needed.  So, it indicates in the call setup
   competence in a number of spoken languages in audio, a number of sign
   languages in video and a number of written languages in text.



Rooney                    Expires May 29, 2016                  [Page 4]

Internet-Draft               slim use cases                November 2015


   A deaf-blind person who prefers to sign out and get text back answers
   with only these capabilities.  The center can detect that and act
   accordingly.

   Alternative1: The center calls without sdp.  The deafblind user
   includes its sdp offer and the center sees what is needed to fulfill
   the call.  Alternative 2: The center calls out with only the spoken
   language capabilities indicated that the caller can handle.

   The deaf-blind answering person, or terminal or service provider
   detects the difference compared to the capabilities of the answering
   party, and adds a suitable relay service. ( this does not use all the
   offerings of the callers competence to pull in extra services, but is
   maybe a more realistic case for what usually happens. )

   Result: doable in the same way as cases 1-8.

3.  Final Comments

   To fulfill all the use cases the currently specified directionality
   will be needed, as well as an indication of absolute preference is
   needed.  An indication of suitable service and its spoken language is
   needed for the speech-to-speech case, but can be useful for other
   cases as well.

   There is no clear need for explicit grouping of modalities seem to be
   needed.

Appendix A.  Change Log

   [[The RFC Editor is requested to remove this section at
   publication.]]

Author's Address

   Natasha Rooney
   US

   Email: a@b.com












Rooney                    Expires May 29, 2016                  [Page 5]
